Create Blog Post “implementing-two-factor-authentication-2fa-with-java-and-spark” (#2423)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/implementing-two-factor-authentication-2fa-with-java-and-spark.md

---
title: Implementing Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) with Java and Spark
description: In this tutorial, you'll see how to quickly add two
  factor   authentication (2FA) to your Java application using the Vonage Verify
  API and Spark.
author: diana-pham-1
published: false
published_at: 2023-04-06T17:51:51.957Z
updated_at: 2023-04-06T17:51:51.972Z
category: tutorial
tags:
  - number-insight-api
  - java
  - verify-api
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---

> With the growing number of cyber threats out there, it's becoming increasingly important to protect your web apps and services against fraudulent signups. Luckily, two-factor authentication (2FA) is here to save the day! By requiring users to provide an additional factor, like their mobile phone, on top of their username and password, 2FA adds an extra layer of security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the growing number of cyber threats, it's becoming increasingly important to protect your web apps and services against fraudulent signups. Luckily, two-factor authentication (2FA) is here to save the day! By requiring users to provide an additional factor, like their mobile phone, on top of their username and password, 2FA adds an extra layer of security.
```

> In this tutorial, we'll guide you through the process of implementing 2FA into your web applications and services. We'll start by creating a user-friendly web page that asks users to register with their mobile phone number. To send a confirmation code via SMS to the user's number, we'll use the [Verify API](https://developer.vonage.com/en/verify/overview).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will guide you through implementing 2FA into your web applications and services. We'll start by creating a user-friendly web page that asks users to register with their mobile phone number. To send a confirmation code via SMS to the user's number, we'll use the [Verify API](https://developer.vonage.com/en/verify/overview).
```

> Once the user receives the code, they simply need to input it into our application to complete the registration process. By using 2FA, you can significantly decrease the chances of fraudulent signups and boost the overall security of your users' data. Let's get started with building a more secure application!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the user receives the code, they must input it into our application to complete the registration process. By using 2FA, you can significantly decrease the chances of fraudulent signups and boost the overall security of your users' data. Let's get started with building a more secure application!
```

## Prerequisites

> To build our application, we'll be using Java and the [Spark web framework](http://sparkjava.com/). We'll also create some basic views for the UI elements, utilizing the [Handlebars templating engine](https://handlebarsjs.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build our application, we'll use the latest version of [Java](https://www.java.com/en/) and the [Spark web framework](http://sparkjava.com/). We'll also create some basic views for the UI elements, utilizing the [Handlebars templating engine](https://handlebarsjs.com/).
```

> To build our application, we'll use the [Java 8](https://www.java.com/en/) and the [Spark web framework](http://sparkjava.com/). We'll also create some basic views for the UI elements, utilizing the [Handlebars templating engine](https://handlebarsjs.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build our application, we'll use [Java 8](https://www.java.com/en/) and the [Spark web framework](http://sparkjava.com/). We'll also create some basic views for the UI elements, utilizing the [Handlebars templating engine](https://handlebarsjs.com/).
```

Before we dive in, make sure you have the following:

> * A [Vonage API account](https://ui.idp.vonage.com/ui/auth/registration?icid=tryitfree_api-developer-adp_nexmodashbdfreetrialsignup_nav). Access your Vonage API Dashboard to locate your API Key and API Secret, which can be found at the top of the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A [Vonage API account](https://ui.idp.vonage.com/ui/auth/registration?icid=tryitfree_api-developer-adp_nexmodashbdfreetrialsignup_nav). Access your Vonage API Dashboard to locate your API Key and API Secret, which can be found at the top of the page.
```

> * [JDK](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or its open-source equivalent [OpenJDK](https://openjdk.java.net/install/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [JDK 17 or higher](https://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) or its open-source equivalent [OpenJDK](https://openjdk.java.net/install/).
```

> * Gradle (version 3.4 or newer) to manage dependencies and build your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Gradle](https://gradle.org/install/) (version 3.4 or newer) to manage dependencies and build your project.
```

Locate the `build.gradle` file and replace the `dependencies` section with the following:

```
dependencies {
    // This dependency is used by the application.
    //implementation 'com.google.guava:guava:27.1-jre'

    // Use JUnit test framework
    testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.13.2'

    // Javalin framework
    //implementation 'io.javalin:javalin:5.4.2'

    // Spark framework
    implementation 'com.sparkjava:spark-core:2.9.4'
 
    // Vonage client library
    implementation 'com.vonage:client:7.2.0'
    
    // Templating engine
    implementation 'com.sparkjava:spark-template-handlebars:2.7.1'
}
```

We won't write any unit tests in this example, but you can leave `JUnit` in there for now. However, to stop it from yelling at you for missing a greeting method later on, comment out the test in `src/test/java/two/factor/auth/AppTest.java` as follows:

```java
public class AppTest {
  /*
   * @Test public void testAppHasAGreeting() { App classUnderTest = new App();
   * assertNotNull("app should have a greeting", classUnderTest.getGreeting()); }
   */
}
```

## Create a Spark Web Application

> `gradle` created the `App` class in the `src/main/java/two/factor/auth/App.java` folder.

Reviewer: Should that not be a capital G in Gradle?
